“Best Practices in Contemporary Dance” is a constant negotiation of bodies and computers connected online. Naoto and Jorge met for the first time online during meetups that Naoto organized during lockdown, and we started focused sessions which turned into the proposed project “Best Practices”. On a weekly basis, Naoto Hieda in Cologne, Germany and Jorge Guevara in Brussels, Belgium meet on LiveLab, a video-performance platform created by CultureHub, to practice for an hour. We distort and alter the videos of ourselves and each other with commercial or open-source software to blend our bodies into the “pixel space”. Every session is recorded and published later online. Keywords include networked performance, contemporary dance, glitches and live-coding (a new form of digital art practice of coding or programming on the spot to create audiovisuals similar to DJ- or video jockeying). However, we do not define what tools and components are to be used, and the practice might include spontaneous reading, writing, body painting or gastronomical experience. While we have been conducting the research for nearly a year, we have not produced a work and the project is not intended to produce a performance in the end. In fact, the practice is the outcome and the objective in itself to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies that gives birth to new use of technology (and body).
We have been using spaces at our apartments as well as the Performing Arts Forum (France). The duo was invited to NODE20 festival (Frankfurt, Germany) and presented the project in the frame of Choreographic Coding Lab Online, an experimental online programme hosted inside GreenHouse NAXOS, a virtual space created by the festival on Mozilla Hubs.
As seen in the attached videos, practices often end up with multiple windows that show distorted and glitched bodies. Our practices start with a single browser opening LiveLab, a video-call and video-performance platform developed by CultureHub. Then we open tools such as Hydra for live-coding visuals or VDMX for video mixing to start capturing our bodies with cameras and blend our bodies into the pixels sent to each other. Nevertheless, usually we do not have an agenda or a composition - we work on topics such as coding, real-time video morphing and body movements as we like or as we continue from previous sessions. We slowly develop imagery during a practice; although the outcome can be called as added layers of “video effects”, we rather refer to it as a “pixel space” since the imagery is not merely video feeds with post effects but is a convolution of video morphing, mashing and feedback. Or we fail to create images that we intended, but no matter what the process is, around 10 minutes to the end, we start dancing with music and the pixel space that we constructed. This last part of the practice is not what the duo has verbally agreed upon but they implicitly formed this ritual to embrace the technology and to dance with it, somewhat similar to a “clubbing” experience letting bodies move with artificial stimuli such as low frequency sound and machine-controlled lights.
Contrary to the usual process of dance archival, in which multiple views of “clean” shots of dancers are favorable to focus on an individual performer or the whole stage, currently the recordings of “Best Practice in Contemporary Dance” only show desktops of our screens, full of “contamination” on purpose. In the recordings, there are multiple browsers, text editors and video synth software and often our bodies only appear in the pixel space overlaid with other images or appear in the corner. One of our desires, which is the core of proposal, is to have a “surgery” on our practice - to collaborate with experts (surgeons) in recording “pure” bodies and tracking movements to examine and to open up our practices (bodies), which we believe that the operation will not decompose the practice but will add another channel or data and enrich our practices. More specifically, we expect to extend our practice and our setup to record multiple views of the bodies including depth imagery and to have them viewable along with the “corrupted” pixel space videos. Moreover, we would like to use the 3D captured bodies in real time to blend them into our pixel space.
We do not foresee any “challenge” - as the duo having technical backgrounds, our sessions are already loaded with technical elements such as live-coding, and thus body capturing will not add complexity, or if it fails, we already know how to embrace the failure and to digest as part of our practice. Nonetheless, our real challenge is not to judge and not to be overloaded with or overwhelmed by the technology; we remind ourselves to be “non-binary” and to find ways to incorporate the technology in an improvisational and fluid manner.
Along with the practice, another important aspect of the practice is a “chat” - a casual discussion usually lasts for half an hour to an hour between the duo to reflect on and theorize the practice. The topic varies from abstract concepts such as time-space to concrete “stage” design of our displays where the practice occurs. Along with the practices, all chat sessions are recorded to create a massive online archive that anyone can revisit. We would like to review the captured 3D data during the recording of discussions to analyze the practice and to speculate the use of technology beyond our practice. We believe that the field of dance-tech collaboration in general is still immature and in its early phase so that coders, artists, dancers and choreographers need to develop a vocabulary to accommodate technological flesh and embodied code rather than using technology as an “icing” on dance pieces. By publishing practice and chat videos, we contribute to a wider audience in the community by stimulating such discourse.
As an external collaborator, we have been in contact with Motion Bank at Hochschule Mainz to make use of their platform PieceMaker. This platform is designed for dance archival and for facilitating rehearsals allowing multiple videos to be synchronized in a single timeline with text annotations. We imagine integrating 3D capture data into their platform as videos or volumetric data to continue the research and not to end the residency as a one-off opportunity. This gives us an opportunity to review practices and to give another life to the recorded material to be viewed and interpreted outside the artists’ perspectives.
We were not ready to switch on camera & mic. What was a distance word only spoken for those in need of closing distances, became the symbol of a new era. The commoditization of our virtual bodies is taking place In zoom times. 
Is necessary to reclaim our virtual bodies!
After a year of the research / practice / enthusiasm, our framework BPICD (short for “Best Practices In Contemporary Dance”) is no longer merely an “interdisciplinary” project of dance and technology but rather we become an option to be a discipline by ourselves, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with. While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce a performance; the practice and its process are intended as an autonomous outcome. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas which form another practice with its autonomy. Practicing resilience in times of uncertainty. 
The artists (and potentially guests and the public audience) meet online on LiveLab, an online video platform for performing arts made by CultureHub. While it is a concrete format, as we breathe in front of a webcam and stream our bodies as pixels or bits (bytes), the virtual space gains a tangible aspect as a “pixel space” where our virtual bodies transmute into audiovisual bodies, a transhuman experience or ourselves. This audiovisual body shape itself through grouping - ungrouping pixels, there is no value where nor form. Rather, there is fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody and propose that fragility as an act of independent resilience.
In times when the virtual and real are no longer an option, can we then say, that only when we lose our shape, function and value, can we reclaim our lives and bodies?
Given our practices, we take the keyword “accessibility” beyond the general sense of opening the platform to those who have been neglected as an audience because of the requirement of specific abilities (for example, vision, motor control or computer literacy). We address these issues by affecting and altering the medium - the web with information in various forms (interactive text, reading, graphics and sound) - and from the context of neurotypes - to offer agencies to people with different abilities and expectations. Information is there not to be imposed but to be found. Furthermore, while we let ourselves be distributed and archived digitally, we also mention that our practices are introspective and highly embodied. We believe that the current archive of the #bestpracticesincontemporarydance found as a playlist in YouTube is valid content that for more than one year is insisting in the format. Therefore, it provides a route-tool for those who work with the body, e.g., dance, theater, performing arts - for the industry and public that was confused and questioning during the pandemic how to fit their practice into digital formats. Furthermore, the invitation is extended to anyone who questions their body and identity to rethink how these reflections can be uploaded and can live online. Instead of fitting our embodied practices into a fixed digital form (encoding and resolutions), we exercise queer forms of practices to broaden how we approach the web - it may become a canvas, a stage, a dance studio or a wardrobe, which benefits not only the performers but opens a new territory for the spectators or rather “participants” to experience a living web environment, i.e., embodied practices beyond audiovisual live streaming. Practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
In our recurring “practices”, Naoto Hieda in Cologne and Jorge Guevara in Brussels meet online to “practice” for an hour. Multiprescenciality is a reality that we embrace. Another aspect of the process is a “chat”, a casual discussion to reflect on the practice. Both the practices and chats are recorded and uploaded on YouTube as a massive online archive. During the residency, we continue the practices and chats on a weekly basis and additionally organize gatherings, inviting the public yet its agenda is not defined letting ideas and practices emerge. The series of events form an independent, pop-up festival to be documented online.
Within the “practice” framework proposed above, the artists will create a series of web experiments mainly using JavaScript (front end including WebGL and Web Audio, and back end with node.js on a self-hosted server and glitch.com web development platform) to make the practices live on the internet after recording. Anyone can visit the web experiments to watch the past practices and intervene them by modifying parameters and live-coded programs, which will be uploaded and synchronized with the server and other viewers through websockets; thus, the practices are no longer recordings but rather living, collective, durational “performances” that do not impose ideas to the viewers but rather offer agencies so that the viewers can discover ideas that are yet to be found by the artists. These experiments are not only for the viewers to participate online but also used in our recurring practices to create a feedback loop within the practices. We are proficient at web design and development, and we use various tools - while we keep using proprietary services and APIs such as YouTube - we prefer open source tools such as Hydra live-coding environment, p5.js and node.js. Furthermore, we publish the programs with MIT license to be remixed by the community.
As we have continued since April 2020, we will organize the proposed “practices” and “chats” on a weekly basis, respectively. In addition to the practice-chat format we established, during the residency, we will make interventions to be published every other week: an extended chat (similar to a podcast) with guest(s) and a series of web experiments described in the methodology. As every experiment is a small platform (examples found in the “additional material”), it will be immediately published online after it is made (or even if it is work in progress) and distributed through our networks to have feedback from the communities.
1st month: weekly practice, chat, open sessions and web interventions
2nd month: weekly practice, chat, open sessions and web interventions
3rd month: weekly practice, chat, open sessions and web interventions
While everything is recurring, we create a webpage that has links to (almost) all the materials including web experiments and video recordings, and these materials are interlinked to form a network rather than a linear narrative.
Best Practices in Contemporary Dance is a queer form of conversation between technology and bodies. Since April 2020, the beginning of 1st COVID-Lockdown, Jorge Guevara and Naoto Hieda meet weekly online to #practice for an hour: to distort and alter videos of themselves and each other, namely, in the pixel space. They do not define what tools and elements are to be used; thus the practice is improvisational and performative. It may include spontaneous reading, writing, eating or body painting. The project is not intended for perfection; the practice itself is the outcome and the objective is to foster a fluid, queer form of conversation where technology and bodies exist without hierarchy and functionality.
The artists promote the use of open and free software. Most of the visuals are generated and modified by Hydra, a live-coding environment created by Olivia Jack. Videos are streamed on LiveLab, a video-call platform for performing arts created by CultureHub. Sessions are recorded and streamed by OBS Studio.
It is important that we strictly keep the limit of 1 hour (sometimes 2 hours) to finish the practice; once the practice starts, there is no going back. This way helps us to dissociate our performative identities from ourselves to be free of prejudice and judgements of ourselves - as human beings within social structures. We call this method sandboxing referring to the term used in software development.
Another important aspect of the practice is a #chat - a casual discussion lasts for roughly an hour between the duo to reflect on and theorize the practices. The topic includes conceptual ideas such as self-dissociation and concrete ideas like the stage design of the desktop where the cursor, windows and tabs are the actors. In the past chat sessions, there have been invited guests such as Joana Chicau (designer), Flor de Fuego (media artist), Liza Futerman (dancer), Ulrike Kuchner (astrophysicist) and Jo Caimo (visual artist). All the practice and chat sessions are recorded to create a massive online archive on YouTube that can be revisited. 
There is a history of dance-tech since the 20th century from Oskar Schlemmer to Merce Cunningham and Nam June Paik to today’s notable figures such as Mária Júdová, Choy Ka Fai, Mio Loclair and Raphael Hillebrand, to name a few. Nevertheless, the artists believe that the field of dance-tech is still in its early days. Rather than using technology as a service for a dance piece (or vice versa), coders, artists, dancers and choreographers need to develop a vocabulary to accommodate technological flesh and embodied code as a practice. Then, dance-tech will no longer be an interdisciplinary collaboration but become a discipline in itself. By publishing practice and chat videos, they contribute to a wider audience in the community to stimulate practice-based approaches.
Furthermore, the artists have started to experiment with medium outside digital videos. Recently, Jorge has published a magazine-thesis about the practices, and Naoto has exhibited banners and posters in public spaces based on the screenshots of the practices during KHM Open.
The work has been presented at PAF (Performing Arts Forum; Saint-Erme, France), NODE20 (Frankfurt, Germany) and ImPulsTanz (Vienna, Austria) among other venues. The next sharing is planned at NEW NOW (Essen, Germany) on September 18th, 2021.
“A queer form of conversation between technology and bodies"
In April 2020, during the 1st COVID-Lockdown, Naoto & Jorge started meeting weekly online to #practice for an hour: to distort and alter the videos of themselves and each other. Another important aspect of the practice is a #chat, a casual discussion that usually lasts for half an hour to reflect on and theorize the practice.
The proposed workshop is a place for experimentation and failure - we share the technical aspects of the practice to the participants. The base of the practices is LiveLab - an open-source video call platform for performing arts, developed by CultureHub. We use its customized version, which is embedded with Hydra, a live-coding environment for analog-synth like visuals, created by Olivia Jack. They can be accessed by a Chromium-based browser, and since we use the “embedded” version, it runs smoothly on low-end laptops, too. We also work on the material: finding videos, images, body movements and literature, for example, and improvising with them.
The workshop is open-level; it involves coding, but participants can start with example code snippets, and no experience is required. We make small groups of 3-4 people (depending on the number of participants) and work on practicing, documenting and publishing the contents.
The #hybridperformance is a hybrid (live & live stream) take of #bestpracticesincontemporarydance practice. 
Within a hybrid format (live & live streamed) It proposes a framework for speculative realties, where the body refuses, singularity and the taxonomical form given by heteronormativity, social conventions stablished by the white man. An exercise of self-dissociation. Hyperrealities, multiplicity, the error, The Glitch! is embraced as an act of none-perfomativity, none-binary gender. Sharing uncertainty as an act of resilience. A new ontological understanding of the body(ies) in relation to the video
In April 2020, during the 1st COVID-Lockdown, we start meeting weekly online to #practice for an hour. We stream, distort and alter the videos of ourselves and each other.
Another important aspect of the practice is a #chat, a casual discussion that usually lasts for half an hour to an hour between the two of us (sometimes there is a guest) to reflect on and theorize the practice. 
Along with the #practices, all #chat sessions are recorded and uploaded in YouTube to create a #massiveonlinearchive that we and others can revisit. This is very important for our framework because we believe that the field of dance-tech collaboration in general is still immature and in its early phase so that coders, artists, dancers and choreographers need to develop a vocabulary to accommodate technological flesh and embodied code rather than using technology superficially in dance pieces. By publishing practice and chat videos, we contribute to a wider audience in the community to stimulate such discussion.
#amanisfesto
“We were not ready to switch on the camera & mic. What was a distance word only spoken for those in need of closing distances, became the symbol of a new era. The commoditization of our virtual bodies is taking place in zoom times.
It’s necessary to reclaim our virtual bodies!
After a year of the research / practice / enthusiasm, our framework BPICD (short for “Best Practices In Contemporary Dance”) is no longer merely an
“interdisciplinary” project of dance and technology but rather we become an option to be a discipline by ourselves, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with. While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce a performance; the practice and its process are intended as an autonomous outcome. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas which form another practice with its autonomy.
Practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
The artists (and potentially guests and the public audience) meet online on LiveLab, an online video platform for performing arts made by CultureHub.
Rather, there is fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody and propose that fragility as an act of independent resilience.
In times when the virtual and real are no longer an option, can we then say, that only when we lose our shape, function and value, can we reclaim our lives and bodies?
Multipresentiality is a reality that we embrace. We let ourselves be distributed and archived digitally. For the user-audience to practice introspection, subjectivity and embodied code. We believe that the current archive of the #bestpracticesincontemporarydance found as a playlist in YouTube is
valid content that for more than one year is insisting in the format. Therefore, it provides a route-tool for those who work with the body, e.g., dance, theater, performing arts - for the industry and public that was confused and questioning during the pandemic how to fit their practice into digital formats. Furthermore, the invitation is extended to anyone who questions their body and identity to rethink how these reflections can be uploaded and can live online. Instead of fitting our embodied practices into a fixed digital form (encoding and resolutions), we exercise queer forms of practices to broaden how we approach the web - it may become a canvas, a stage, a dance studio or a wardrobe, which benefits not only the performers but opens a new territory for the spectators or rather “participants” to experience a living web environment, i.e., embodied practices beyond audiovisual live streaming. Practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
How can dance, technology & digital platforms blend to give birth to a new art medium?
After two year of research/practice/enthusiasm, #BestPractices became an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with. Our objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas that form another practice with its own autonomy.
A visitor curiously enters the installation, and the laptops autonomously show a progression of live-coding and movements seen in #BestPracticesInContemporaryDance as if it is a playback of one of the video calls from the practices. The visitor finds a webcam and stands in front of it – they notice that the video call is not a mere playback, but their body blends into it. The video is not representational; the body ungroups into pixels and groups into glitch. Some of the cameras are pointed to wardrobe and props such as nail polish, which visitors are welcomed to try on. #BestPractices proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
How can dance, technology & digital platforms blend to give birth to a new art medium?
#BrestPracticesInContemporaryDance (#BestPractices)
A queer form of conversation between technologies & bodies 
An emergent dialogue
FRAMEWORK STATEMENT
After two year of research/practice/enthusiasm, #bestPractices is an interdisciplinary project of dance and technology and becomes an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body which we lost, or indeed we were not born with. The body refuses singularity and the taxonomical form given by heteronormativity & social conventions. An exercise of self-dissociation & post-humanism. Hyperrealities, multiplicity, the error, The Glitch! is embraced as an act of non-performativity, non-binary gender. In pro of a new audiovisual body.
While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce “a” performance; the #practice and its processes are intended as an entangled autonomous outcome. An ontological emergence; dependent on, autonomous from. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid conversation where tools and bodies blend (or separate), challenging assumptions - encouraging curiosity & speculative realities.
This new audiovisual body is a transhuman yet fragile experience of ourselves. There is a fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody, and share this fragility as an act of common healing. There is fragility & vulnerability in the uncertain.
In times where power & dominance structures of knowledge are being questioned, #bestPractices proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
PRACTICAL
We will be focusing on scenography, dramaturgy & choreography in the form of a #HybridPerformance, a hybrid (live&Online performance) take on #BestPractices. 
We see the potential, we believe this can become something, not necessarily a good dance piece/ performance. Oh no, please no!, we would rather like this to be an entry point for dialogue between human and non-human actors. To generate the conditions for things to happen within dance&technology, because to be honest, we don't know, we don't want to know. A space that wellcomes and perhaps represents queer & glitch bodies, the misfit, the wrong doing. An affective glimpse of the nature of the systems of complexity that we are living in.
At least 2 residence sessions where we will be focusing on scenography, dramaturgy & choreography in the form of a #HybridPerformance, a hybrid (live&Online performance) take on #BestPractices. 
Besides the 2 residence sessions and during the whole period of collaboration with Zinnema and other potential co-production houses, we want to build community. The focus of the first chapter of #BestPractices (2020-2022) is to immerse the two of us to develop and establish a language-practice engaging body and technology over the Internet. Our reflections as an ontological process are shared publicly on YouTube as a video-recorded dialogue between us (#chat), where guest artists, dancers and researchers are invited in 7 of 77 episodes. As the second chapter of #BestPractices to be undertaken in collaboration with Zinnema and other potential co-production houses (2022-2023), we emphasise the community and sharing aspect. Even after 2 years of pandemic, a lot of performing artists do not have the means to approach technology to incorporate into their practices. We take the approach of #chat further to share “knowledge” and moreover to create a feedback loop with the community of dancers, artists, scientists and technologists. Inviting new voices here is fundamental! 
We need Zinnema and other potential co-production houses networks to reach out! Ideally we would like to have a dedicated community manager.
Part of the production budget will be used to invite guests, artists, scientists  and  potential-future panthers. 
More concrete, we invite community members to share the tools we (mis)use and to create, for example, poetry, sketches and choreography together. The sessions will be documented as video and text, and the iteration will lead to a format of #BestPracticesWorkshop where participants can explore how can they embody, soften the technology and (mis)use it so that the body feels less and less vulnerable with #practice. As it gets more comfortable with not knowing what to do with software-hardware.
WHAT DO WE NEED?
During the period of collaboration: Network & accompaniment. If possible, a dedicated community manager that helps us to create a communication strategy in dialogue with Zinnema and other potential co-production houses. To invite new voices and build a dance&tech community.
#HyperPerformance recidence sessions:
Technical-logistic: Since the framework deals with uncertainty and adaptability, we can book and make use of available material provided by a technical rider (in advance). Based on the tech rider we can think on what to order-buy with the production budget.
Research assistance & feedback sessions on scenography, dramaturgy, choreography.
How can dance, technology & digital platforms blend to give birth to a new art medium?
After two year of research/practice/enthusiasm, #BestPractices became an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with. Our objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas that form another practice with its own autonomy.
A visitor curiously enters the installation, and the laptops autonomously show a progression of live-coding and movements seen in #BestPracticesInContemporaryDance as if it is a playback of one of the video calls from the practices. The visitor finds a webcam and stands in front of it – they notice that the video call is not a mere playback, but their body blends into it. The video is not representational; the body ungroups into pixels and groups into glitch. Some of the cameras are pointed to wardrobe and props such as nail polish, which visitors are welcomed to try on. #BestPractices proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practising resilience in times of uncertainty.
A queer form of conversation between technologies & bodies
How can dance, technology & digital platforms blend to give birth to a new art medium?
After two year of research/practice/enthusiasm, #bestPractices is no longer merely an “interdisciplinary” project of dance and technology but rather becomes an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with.
While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce a performance; the practice and its process are intended as an autonomous outcome. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas that form another practice with its own autonomy.
The framework proposes “audiovisual bodies”, a transhuman experience of ourselves. This audiovisual body shapes itself through grouping/ungrouping pixels, where there is no value nor form. Rather, there is fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody, and share that fragility as an act of common healing.
There is fragility & vulnerability in the uncertain.
In times where power & dominance structures of knowledge are being questioned, #bestPractices proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practising resilience in times of uncertainty.
Multipresentiality is a reality, when the virtual vis-a-vis real is no longer an option, can we then say that only when we lose our shape, function and value, can we reclaim our lives and bodies?
[Hybrid installation]
A visitor curiously enters the installation, and the laptops autonomously show a progression of live-coding and movements seen in #BestPracticesInContemporaryDance as if it is a playback of one of the video calls from the practices. The visitor finds a webcam and stands in front of it – they notice that the video call is not a mere playback, but their body blends into it. The video is not representational; the body ungroups into pixels and groups into glitch. Some of the cameras are pointed to wardrobe and props such as nail polish, which visitors are welcomed to try on.
After two year of research/practice/enthusiasm, #bestPractices is an interdisciplinary project of dance and technology and becomes an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body which we lost, or indeed we were not born with. The body refuses singularity and the taxonomical form given by heteronormativity & social conventions. An exercise of self-dissociation & post-humanism. Hyperrealities, multiplicity, the error, The Glitch! is embraced as an act of non-performativity, non-binary gender. In pro of a new audiovisual body.
While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce “a” performance; the #practice and its processes are intended as an entangled autonomous outcome. An ontological emergence; dependent on, autonomous from. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid conversation where tools and bodies blend (or separate), challenging assumptions - encouraging curiosity & speculative realities.
This new audiovisual body is a transhuman yet fragile experience of ourselves. There is a fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody, and share this fragility as an act of common healing. There is fragility & vulnerability in the uncertain.
In times where power & dominance structures of knowledge are being questioned, #bestPractices proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
Practical
During the 2 deep-dive residence sessions we will be focusing on scenography, dramaturgy & choreography in the form of a #HybridPerformance, a hybrid (live&Online performance) take on #BestPractices. 
We see the potential, we believe this can become something, not necessarily a good dance piece/ performance. Oh no, please no!, we would rather like this to be an entry point for dialogue between human and non-human actors. To generate the conditions for things to happen within dance&technology, because to be honest, we don't know, we don't want to know. A space that wellcomes and perhaps represents queer & glitch bodies, the misfit, the wrong doing. An affective glimpse of the nature of the systems of complexity that we are living in.
Besides the 2 dive-deep sessions and during the whole period as associated artists, we want to build community. The focus of the first chapter of #BestPractices (2020-2022) is to immerse the two of us to develop and establish a language-practice engaging body and technology over the Internet. Our reflections as an ontological process are shared publicly on YouTube as a video-recorded dialogue between us (#chat), where guest artists, dancers and researchers are invited in 7 of 77 episodes. As the second chapter of #BestPractices to be undertaken as associate artists at Beursschouwburg (2022-2024), we emphasise the community and sharing aspect. Even after 2 years of pandemic, a lot of performing artists do not have the means to approach technology to incorporate into their practices. We take the approach of #chat further to share “knowledge” and moreover to create a feedback loop with the community of dancers, artists, scientists and technologists. Inviting new voices here is fundamental! 
We need Beursschouwburg, and the Constellation networks to reach out! Ideally we would like to have a dedicated community manager.
Part of the production budget will be used to invite guests, artists, scientists  and  potential-future panthers. 
More concrete, we invite community members to share the tools we (mis)use and to create, for example, poetry, sketches and choreography together. The sessions will be documented as video and text, and the iteration will lead to a format of #BestPracticesWorkshop where participants can explore how can they embody, soften the technology and (mis)use it so that the body feels less and less vulnerable with #practice. As it gets more comfortable with not knowing what to do with software-hardware.
What do we need?
During the 2.5 year: Network & accompaniment. If possible, a dedicated community manager that helps us to create a communication strategy in dialogue with Beursschouwburg. & the Constellation. To invite new voices and build a dance&tech community.
#HyperPerformance deep-dive sessions:
Technical-logistic: Since the framework deals with uncertainty and adaptability, we can book and make use of available material provided by a technical rider (in advance). Based on the tech rider we can think on what to order-buy with the production budget.
Research assistance & feedback sessions on scenography, dramaturgy, choreography. 
A queer form of conversation between technologies & bodies
How can dance, technology & digital platforms blend to give birth to a new art medium?
After two year of  research/practice/enthusiasm, #bestPractices is no longer merely an “interdisciplinary” project of dance and technology but rather becomes an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with.
While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce “a” performance; the practice and its process are intended as an autonomous outcome. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas that form another practice with its own autonomy.
The framework proposes “audiovisual bodies”, a transhuman experience of ourselves. This audiovisual body shapes itself through grouping/ungrouping pixels, where there is no value nor form. Rather, there is fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody, and share that fragility as an act of common healing.
There is fragility & vulnerability in the uncertain.
In times where power & dominance structures of knowledge are being questioned, #bestPractices proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practising resilience in times of uncertainty.
Multipresentiality is a reality, when the virtual vis-a-vis real is no longer an option, can we then say that only when we lose our shape, function and value, can we reclaim our lives and bodies?
[Hybrid installation]
A visitor curiously enters the installation, and the laptops autonomously show a progression of live-coding and movements seen in #BestPracticesInContemporaryDance as if it is a playback of one of the video calls from the practices. The visitor finds a webcam and stands in front of it - they notice that the video call is not a mere playback, but their body blends into it. The video is not representational; the body ungroups into pixels and groups into glitch. Some of the cameras are pointed to wardrobe and props such as nail polish, which visitors are welcomed to try on.
2 bodies make a conversation with technology - which are equipment on the stage such as cameras, projectors, TVs, lasers, smoke machines, including elements on computers: cursors, desktop and windows - which are all actors, animated and alive in the performance. Some actors are functional, but others are non-functional - a TV connected to a cable with a defect that shows noise pattern - which leads to confusion and frustration. 
THIS Away from the anthropocentric view - BP NONE Hierarchy, the body is a one element as, the chair, or the internet, pixels… living and non-living object, non-humans yet alive,   - breaking hierarchy between human and technology, in our performance, we are not using technology nor being used by technology.
Fragility, not knowing what the other one is/ want to do   
Question “intelligent” life and “productive” technology
Life - The projects proposes a queer form of conversation between technology & bodies, is queer because is none-binary, It cant be defined as functional, is rather a none-functional framework that    the #hybridPerformance humans are not
Jorge Guevara and Naoto Hieda met over the internet as part of a series of meetups that Naoto organized during lockdown in April 2020, which turned into focused sessions called “Best Practices in Contemporary Dance”. Since then, on a weekly basis, Naoto Hieda in Cologne and Jorge Guevara in Brussels meet online to “practice” for an hour. We stream, distort and alter the videos of ourselves and each other both using commercial and/or open-source software to blend our bodies in the “pixel space”. We do not define what tools and components are to be used, and the practice might include spontaneous reading, writing, eating or body painting. The project is not intended to produce a performance; the practice itself is the outcome and the objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies. Another aspect of the process is a “chat”, a casual discussion to reflect on the practice. Both the practices and chats are recorded and uploaded on YouTube as a massive online archive. The project was presented at NODE20 Festival (Frankfurt) in PAF (Performing Arts Forum.Saint Erme.France) and SEADS (Space Ecologies Art and Design), and is going to be presented at IDOCDE (ImPulsTanz, Vienna) as (ever-)work-in-progress.
On the stage, two bodies, colorful objects, live-codes and glitter pixels continuously change their constellations - superimposing and subtracting, grouping and ungrouping - while the abundance of “actors” never arrives to a specific form. The performance is a “petri dish” where something happens as if in the lab environment, but there is no linearity nor anecdote. It is the audience members - being active spectators - who have to make sense of the phenomena on the stage as if they are scientists. Onsite and online audience members have access to an interface to which they can connect from their phone or computer (image below). They can intervene in the performance by writing computer code; but no prior knowledge is required because the artificial intelligence assistant, Copilot AI will help them. Thus, the audience members become part of actors in the performance - as a fragmented body and code.
Mockup of the web interface for online audience
Over the 2 months of residency, we prepare a stage for digital, contagious, and networked bodies and code, based on the outcomes from the ongoing research-creation “Best Practices in Contemporary Dance” (BPICD) yet as a brand new project for a stage performance. Since 2020, BPICD has been Jorge and Naoto’s platform to embrace becoming of queer bodies and technologies. We stream, distort and alter the videos of ourselves and each other to blend our bodies in the “pixel space” using open-source and/or commercial software. It is not a performance nor a product; it is about becoming, and it is a discipline on its own, including dance and technology. It is what proposes the emergence of an Audiovisual Body: a new epistemo-ontological study of the body in relation to the video.
“There are already a lot of media-dance performances, so what is new about it?”
What we do is not only mixing videos and dancing, but as part of the performance, we code on the spot with Hydra, a live-coding environment created by Olivia Jack. We morph our camera streaming in real time with code, which is more than a mere video effect nor filter. Thus, programming code is what bridges our physical and digital bodies, and for the proposed, brand new performance SFDCANBAC++, we would like to bring this experience to the audience by creating an enchanted, mystified space for non-normative code and non-comforming bodies.
“So, does it mean that the audience has to code, too? Do they need to be a programmer?”
Yes, they are invited to code, and no, anyone without coding experience can be part of the performance with the help of an artificial intelligence system. During the residency, we develop the system, namely Copilot AI, which is a new actor for our co-creation. The AI-based tool guides the user-audience to write code onsite and online without the need of having experience in programming through simple interactions of typing and clicking. In this way, our mixed-ability of technical knowledge is no longer a hindrance but rather creates a nurturing space for encounters for fluid speculation at the constant state of becoming.
The duo, Jorge Guevara and Naoto Hieda, has unique, overlapping and complementing skill sets; Jorge professionally works as a dancer, choreographer, light-stage designer and art director and has training in design and software development. Naoto has a background in engineering and works as an artist and a performer. For this project, Naoto leads Technology and Jorge leads Choreography & Dance. As for the team, we would like to work with two performers (to be recruited) as our physical “avatars” to co-create and to present.
For the tech rider, we emphasize scalability and take a modular approach depending on the size of the space. This is key for the project as we are getting more and more conscious of the footprint of working with technology. We work towards a self-sustainable performance that upcycle materials and can travel and adapt to different locations with the minical ecological impact. Specifically, the set is dynamic where we set up objects and screens adapting to the space. The fundamental requirements, to be rented, are to have access to cameras (webcams for connecting with Hydra real-time visuals and camcorders for documentation) and a projector or a large monitor for a visualization on the stage. A wifi router is needed to serve contents to the onsite audience to access to the server and to host content. We would like to use DMX controllable lights such as: Pars, Fresnels, Spots and at least 2 Moving Heads and a DMX interface with ArtNet protocol. We have significant expertise to design and control the light system with our own tools including commercial and open-source systems. Furthermore, we would like to rent and to work with a motion capture suit for recordings and real-time visuals.
The methodology and timeline are as follows. 
During Week 2 and 3, we set up the technical system as well as workshop materials for the collaboration with the dancers. First, we develop the web interface for the onsite and online audience. The interface is an option for the audience; they can engage with it to add another layer to the performance, but they are not required to. It shows the live feed from the stage and a Hydra code editor side by side. The code affects their live feed (similar to a video effect or filter, but importantly and precisely, what the code produces is more than a mere effect) and each audience member is invited to change the code. With the help of the custom made Copilot AI, there is no prerequisite skill to use the editor. The code written by the audience would be communicated to the computer on the stage and fed back to the projection on the stage. For the technicality, we both have experience in full-stack development, and especially Naoto is an active contributor of Hydra and has been creating Hydra-integrated web installations in the past years. During the process, from academic mentors we would like to have support and input on how to integrate a custom made Copilot AI into the web editor. We would like to consult with the mentors about different approaches, for example, to autocomplete the code based on the user input, or to suggest automatically generated code as multiple selection to the user, and implement the effective and feasible approach given the timeframe. Also, we need technical support and input on integrating video streaming from the live camera on the stage to the audience’s devices: for example, setting up a local streaming server for the onsite audience and using an existing live-streaming platform for the online audience. If it turns out to be too challenging, as a backup plan, we keep the experience on site and use open source peer to peer video streaming.
Concurrently, we will prepare a space for something to happen: the physical “set”, collecting objects and costumes to be part of and to be used on the stage. This will become concrete as we Practice with the dancers deriving from the Ethos of BPICD.
During Week 4 to 5, we work with two performers on improvisational Practices. We set up the stage, and they will improvise for, say, an hour to explore various performativity - movements, wordplay, painting, and so on - embracing spontaneity and ephemerality towards a fluid Practice, similar to a structured improvisation rather than a set performance. All the rehearsals will be recorded with multiple cameras, screen-recorded on the computers and optionally tracked with motion capture. Throughout the rehearsals, we will test the developed web user interface as beta testing by ourselves and by the invited guests so that we have time to iterate on the implementation to make the system robust and to be prepared for the showings. Since the core of performance entails a hybrid onsite-online Stage Design, we will carry out different Stress Testing (a software testing activity that determines the robustness of software by testing beyond the limits of normal operation) with focus in telematics and network aspects.  
From right after the first rehearsal to Week 6, we are going to review the practices, to up-cycle methodologies and pick qualities in movements with respect to both bodies and technologies, to choreograph and to design the performance. We will reduce the overall footprint of the project by up-cycling different materials and methodologies; there may be movements extracted from the past sessions; video projections from the previous recordings will add another layer, which require more attention from the spectators to decipher; there may be visualization of motion capture, morphed by Hydra live-code. The machine learning model for the Copilot AI may be retrained during this phase, given the code written by us during the improvisational sessions.
In Week 7, we put everything together and undertake final rehearsals. At this point, we have all the choreographic and technical materials, and will be ready to perform after general rehearsals.
As we breathe in front of a webcam and stream our bodies as pixels or bytes in the bandwidth, the virtual space gains a tangible aspect as a “pixel space” where our virtual bodies transmute into “audiovisual bodies”, a transhuman experience of ourselves. This “audiovisual body” shapes itself through grouping/ungrouping pixels, where there is no value nor form attached to the physical realm. Rather, there is fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody, and share that fragility as an act of common healing.
There is fragility & vulnerability in the uncertain.
In times where power & dominance structures of knowledge are being questioned, #BestPractices- proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
[A queer form of conversation between technologies & bodies]
How can dance, technology and digital platforms blend to give birth to a new art medium?
After three years of research/practice/enthusiasm, #BestPractices- is no longer merely an “interdisciplinary” project of dance and technology but rather becomes an option to be a discipline in itself, attempting to reclaim the virtual body, which we lost, or indeed we were not born with.
While it entails a performative aspect, the project is not intended to produce “the” performance; the practice and its process are intended as an autonomous outcome. Branching out from the sandbox or petri dish we prepare. An attempt to distance the project from anthropomorphism & anthropocentrism. The objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies where tools and bodies blend (or separate), giving space for speculative ideas that form another practice with its own autonomy.
The framework proposes “audiovisual bodies”, a transhuman experience of ourselves. This audiovisual body shapes itself through grouping/ungrouping pixels, where there is no value nor form. Rather, there is fragility that bodies may be distorted by code or network interruptions. We embrace, embody, and share that fragility as an act of common healing.
There is fragility & vulnerability in the uncertain.
In times where power & dominance structures of knowledge are being questioned, #BestPractices- proposes sharing a common space for not knowing, practicing resilience in times of uncertainty.
Multipresentiality is a reality, when the virtual vis-a-vis real is no longer an option, can we then say that only when we lose our shape, function and value, can we reclaim our lives and bodies?
[Hybrid installation]
A visitor curiously enters the installation, and the laptops autonomously show a progression of live coding and live movements emerging on the spot by the computer and the visitor, respectively. The visitor finds a webcam and stands in front of it - they notice that the video call is not a mere playback. In the grid of videos, there are pre-recorded videos of #BestPractices - more than 100 hours of the artists’ practice on video calls - and the visitor’s distorted image blends into them. None of the videos are representational; the body ungroups into pixels and groups into glitch. Another camera is pointed to wardrobe and props such as nail polish, which visitors are welcomed to try on.
The website is created by the artists themselves adapting Hydra, a live-coding environment created by Olivia Jack, and can be also accessed online from the following link.
If possible, in addition to the installation, we would like to propose a workshop or a lecture. The artists are individually applying for travel grants to potentially be on site in Bogotá.
As we jump into the realm of digitality, our flesh is quantized into bits/bytes and limited to the bandwidth, becoming the (restricted) image and sound, or audiovisual. In other words, our performative identities are degenerated and dissociated from ourselves to be free of existing representation, prejudice and judgements - as human beings within social structures. We call this methodology “sandboxing” referring to the term used in software development, having a separate environment from a production environment to test programs that potentially contain bugs and errors. Nevertheless, the digital, audiovisual body does not mean it is cold or dry - there is care, which holds between network nodes to make the exchange of ephemeral information and entropy meaningful, yet the care is performed differently from how we care in the physical world. #BestPractices- is not merely an artwork or performance but it is a framework where we create a virtual sandbox or petri dish that gives rise to new representation of our bodies through a simple setup of webcams, code and video streaming.
Roughly 2 x 2 meter space with a wall projection (preferably dark, and spotlights in front of the camera and props) / a webcam pointing at the visitors and another webcam at props / props such as clothes (fancy leggings and glitter tops) and nail polish.
Computer and projector to be provided by the festival - the computer can be negotiated / 2 cameras and props by the artists (we, at least one of us, are planning to be there for transport and construction)
Almost every artist has to show contents online, but not everyone has access to a dedicated server to avoid tech giants. Are GAFAM corporations evil and we have to boycott them, or are there other ways to “hack” the system while using major platforms?
To investigate this question, we propose to form a working group and publish a handbook/guidebook.
Jorge Guevara and Naoto Hieda met over the internet as part of a series of meetups that Naoto organized during lockdown in April 2020. After 3 months of open-ended conversations, the two started focused sessions called “Best Practices in Contemporary Dance”. Since then, on a weekly basis, Naoto Hieda in Cologne and Jorge Guevara in Brussels meet online to practice for an hour or to chat to reflect on the practices. We stream, distort and alter the videos of ourselves and each other both using open-source and/or commercial software to blend our bodies in the “pixel space”. We do not define what tools and components are to be used, and the practice might include spontaneous reading, writing, eating or body painting. The project is not intended to produce a performance; the practice itself is the outcome and the objective is to create a fluid, queer form of conversation between technology and bodies. On several occasions, such as aforementioned festivals and residencies, we meet in person and practice in real life, sometimes involving other participants in a workshop manner. All the practice, chat and workshop sessions are recorded and uploaded on YouTube as a massive online archive in that way others can access the information. 
Currently we have several future plans, which we refer to as branches, such as creating a choreographic piece and expanding the workshop to disseminate our practice. One of the branches - which has priority - is to rethink how we collect and archive contents. Our artifacts are mostly videos (at the time of writing, 124 videos of practices and 100 videos of chats), followed by texts (including our diploma theses and application proposals such as this text), code sketches and websites. As all of the videos are hosted on the YouTube platform, we have to make a critical decision on how we proceed: is YouTube (or Google) an evil and we have to boycott and avoid using it, or are there other ways to “hack” the system while using major platforms? This is not a unique problem to the two of us, but every artist has to decide where to host the contents. Importantly, not everyone has access to a dedicated server to avoid tech giants, in terms of both skill set and resource.
To further investigate this question, we propose to form a working group and make a report or an online handbook in the end, inspired by Caroline Sinders’ Feminist Data Set. In her handbook, Sinders writes best practices in collecting data for training non-normative artificial intelligence, which has been observed and learned through workshops with participants. Following this model, we organize a working group which follows our chat structure: a conversation between two uploaded on YouTube, sometimes with a guest artist/dancer/researcher/coder or anyone in between. The chat sessions will be organized once or twice a week as we already do, and specifically for the proposal, we write collectively on the theme of disobedient practice in archiving. With each guest, we start from basic questions. Where do you upload videos? How many videos are there? Do you keep them protected (e.g., for curators, applications) or public? Do you put hashtags? In the case of self-hosting, how much does it cost (budget and resources for maintenance)? Then we speculate, what happens if YouTube (Vimeo, archive.org or any platform) shuts down, or what is worse, if they indefinitely suspend your channel? There is no absolute solution to these situations, and being vulnerable as independent artists, we need to collect ideas, worries, questions and tips and to share them with a broader community for solidarity. We may not completely refuse the tech giants and find a way to “hack” existing platforms (e.g., how to avoid being part of the monetization scheme, or do we want to earn money from YouTube or TikTok?). We may end up finding a supporting institution to host anyone’s video contents for free or for a small fee. Or, we may start an artist-run, peer-to-peer network to host fellow artists’ videos (but then, who qualifies as an artist? Is there a qualification?).
